All right.
Hello everyone and welcome. My name is
Matt Bleifer. I am a product manager on
Anthropic's research team. And today I
will be sharing a little bit how
Claude leverages compute at inference
time, otherwise known as test time
compute, in order to break down and
solve some of your hardest software
engineering challenges.
Along the way, I'll share a little bit
about what levers you have at your
disposal in order to influence how
Claude spends tokens, and I will also
share some best practices to help you be
able to get the most out of it.
So one of the key developments in large
language models over the last couple of
years has been the scaling of test time
compute, creating something that we've
all come to know as reasoning models.
Similar to how we can scale compute at
training time by training bigger models
over longer time horizons using more
data, we can also scale compute at test
time by allowing those models to spend
more time working on a problem.
So if you look at this graph on the
left, you can see that when we move from
Haiku to Sonnet to Opus, as the model
gets more intelligent, it's able to get
a better score on our agentic coding
evaluation.
And then similarly in the graph on the
right, as that same model Opus actually
just spends more time working on a
problem, it's able to correspondingly
get better and better scores. This is
what we mean by scaling test time
compute.
Now this This true just of software
engineering, It's really true of a whole
variety of knowledge work domains,
whether it's agentic search, computer
use, or PhD level academic reasoning. If
we can allow models to spend more time
working on a problem, they can achieve
better and better results.
So, looking at a bunch of charts and
graphs is always great for understanding
the data and the different correlations,
but nothing really beats seeing a
tangible example of what this looks like
in practice. And so, what I went ahead
and did is I ran Opus 4.7 on a few
different effort levels, scaling the
amount of time that it works on a given
prompt.
Where in this case, I asked it to create
a realistic simulation of cars going
down a one-way street at a traffic
light.
So, the first result we have here is
Opus 4.7 running on low effort.
You can see in the simulation, it took
about 50 seconds to produce a result for
us and worked for about 4,600 output
tokens.
And I'd say it accomplished something
that was fairly reasonable. We do in
fact have cars going down a one-way
street.
Uh they are stopping at the traffic
light.
But overall, it's a pretty basic
simulation. The traffic flow is fairly
basic.
Uh the graphics are limited. And for
some reason, Claude thought it would be
a great idea to put the traffic light
right in the middle of the road, which
maybe wasn't the best design decision,
but we will still call it functionally
passing.
So, the next thing I did here is I went
ahead and I cranked that effort dial up
a bit. So, when I moved effort up to
high for Opus 4.7,
it took about twice the time working on
our traffic simulation and double the
output tokens. But as you can see, it
was able to achieve a better result.
It has cars of different types. It
smartly moved the traffic light over to
the side of the road. And Opus told me
that it even implemented what it called
an intelligent driver model where every
car would more uniquely respond to the
dynamics of the car around it, doing a
better job simulating simulating a
realistic traffic pattern. So again,
twice the amount of time, better
results.
Now, the last thing that I did here is I
cranked that effort dial all the way up
to max.
And in this setting, Opus 4.7 took 10x
the amount of time that it did when
executing this same prompt on low effort
and 10x amount the amount of tokens.
But as you can see, it was able to
achieve the best results yet. We have
the best graphics, my favorite traffic
light of all of them, and really
realistic driving patterns.
This is all an example of how when you
allow Claude, even on the same model, to
just spend more time working on a
problem, it can get better results.
As we continue to scale test time
compute further and further, Claude
isn't just going to work for seconds or
minutes or hours on a problem. It's
going to work for days, weeks, months,
even years, spending tokens to try to
solve some of humanity's toughest
challenges.
So when I talk about test time compute,
I really mean any form of Claude
spending tokens at inference time in
order to solve your problem.
However, we can break these token types
down into three a of distinct buckets.
The first bucket that we have is
thinking tokens. This is the classic
form of tokens that underlying
underlies what we know as reasoning
models.
Thinking tokens represent Claude's
internal monologue. It's Claude's space
to reason step-by-step, to consider
different potential options, do some
chain of thought reasoning, create a
scratch pad where it needs to work
through a problem, and ultimately spend
time thinking through what it needs to
do in order to take the best actions and
deliver the best results.
The second form of tokens that Claude
can spend when taking on a task is tool
calling tokens.
Tool calling is Claude's way of
interfacing with the rest of the world.
Whether it's using tool calls to execute
a search in this example, giving me more
information about the Code with Claude
conference,
or reading and writing files in order to
build out software engineering projects.
There's really millions of different
tools that Claude can call, but in all
of these scenarios, tool calling tokens
are Claude's way of interfacing with its
environment.
The last type of tokens that Claude can
spend is text. And this is Claude's way
of interacting with you.
Whether it needs to give you updates as
it's working on a really, really tough
problem and let you know how it's
progressing,
give you a summary at the end to explain
all of the things that it did in
response to the tough task that you gave
it, or simply just responding to a
simple question that you have, text
tokens are Claude's way of communicating
with an end user.
So again, we have three different types
of tokens: thinking, tool calling, and
text. And all three of these we think of
as really fundamental to the way in
which Claude works and the way in which
Claude responds to problems.
But all of these tokens that we're
spending have really direct costs to
users in the form of both practical
token costs that we pay for,
as well as waiting time when Claude
spends more tokens, it means that we as
users have to wait longer for our
result.
And so, we think it's really important
that we give users the ability to
influence or constrain how Claude spends
tokens.
Using Claude,
users can express their preferences and
constraints in a couple ways.
The first way is with that effort dial
that I talked about.
Effort is a way for you to tell Claude
how you want it to trade off time, cost,
and quality when responding to your
task.
Should Claude spend more time in order
to get a better answer?
Should it spend less time in order to
get a faster answer? These are all
preferences that you can give to Claude
as a user that it will take into account
when it goes and it spends these tokens.
Another form of constraints that users
can provide is in the form of budgets.
Recently, we launched a feature that we
call task budgets, which allows you to
tell Claude an upper bound of the amount
of tokens that it will spend when
working on a task. So, you might say,
"Hey, I want you to build out this
particular software engineering feature
for me, but I don't want you to spend
more than 100,000 tokens before you stop
and check in with me as a user."
Budgets could come in the form of
tokens,
but they could also come in the form of
time or cost. And I think this will get
increasingly important as we continue to
move up that exponential and Claude is
working for days, weeks, months, or more
to be able to give some guidelines about
how long it should work on a particular
problem before it stops to check in.
Now, given all of these preferences and
constraints,
it's really up to Claude to figure out
the best way to spend those tokens in
order to maximize outcome. So, given the
user's effort settings, given a
potential budget setting, how does
Claude allocate tokens across thinking,
tool calling, and text in order to
maximize its performance and its user
experience?
When reasoning models were first
introduced, they followed a really
specific pattern in terms of how to
spend these tokens.
The first thing they would do is they
would think, and they would spend those
thinking tokens to work through a
problem, and then after that, they would
move on to tool calling, and then
lastly, they would move to text.
We improved on this when we introduced
interleaved thinking, which allowed
Claude to actually use thinking and
reasoning in between tool calls.
In this mode, Claude could call a tool,
get a result, think about that result,
then determine what it wants to call
next, so on and so forth, all the way
until it decides to give a final answer.
Recently, we launched adaptive thinking,
and adaptive thinking is the next
evolution on top of interleaved
thinking.
In this new paradigm,
Claude is free to think whenever
appropriate. There's really no
constraint on when Claude needs to
think, how much it needs to think, or in
what order it spends any of these
tokens. It can leverage thinking, tool
use, and text in whatever order is
needed in order to best meet the
requirements of your task.
Claude could choose to start with a text
response in order to acknowledge the
user request. It could stop to call a
tool. It could then think about that
tool, respond to the user to give an
update, continue to call tools, so on
and so forth, all the way until it
provides that final answer of the work
that it did.
Claude could also choose not to think at
all for simple queries that don't
require it. Now, in practice, Claude
will typically think more often and
longer in response to higher effort
levels, but everything is really prompt
dependent. You can imagine that if I
were to survey someone in the in the
crowd here and say, "What is 2 + 2?" and
I ask them to spend a little bit amount
of time on the problem versus a lot of
time on the problem, you're roughly
going to spend the equivalent amount of
time working on that problem.
However, the story would change a lot if
I asked you to conduct a really
sophisticated research task. The
difference between your thinking on
low-effort and high-effort there could
be quite dramatic.
Now, adaptive thinking is not a model
router, and it's not an automated
thinking toggle. So, it's not taking
your query, classifying it based off of
difficulty, and figuring out whether it
should use a thinking version of the
model or a non-thinking version of the
model.
Rather, it's the difference between
telling Claude, "You must spend at least
one thinking token at the start of this
response." and telling Claude, "You can
spend thinking tokens whenever and
however needed in order to solve this
problem."
It's really about Claude having the
option to think at every single step of
the process.
We run all of our benchmarks on adaptive
thinking since Opus 4.6, and it's really
our intelligence maximizing setting that
shows performance parity or better with
inner leaf thinking while delivering a
better user experience.
So, I want to dig a little bit more into
effort and contrast it to the ways in
which we've used thinking in the past.
Historically, users have used thinking
toggles a lot like an effort dial. So,
if you wanted Claude to spend more time
working on a problem, you might turn on
thinking inside of Claude.ai or Claude
Code, and you would expect that it would
spend more time working in order to give
you a better result.
That's a pretty reasonable instinct.
However, thinking toggles are kind of a
poor proxy for an effort dial.
Rather than expressing how hard you want
Claude to work, what you're really doing
is you are turning on and off a really
core capability of the model. You're
constraining how it's allowed to work,
not how hard you want it to work.
An effort dial is a much better
expression of the idea of spend more
tokens in order to get a better answer.
It moves thinking, tool use, and output
text all together instead of just
toggling one of them.
As an analogy with tool use, we don't
tell Claude to always search or never
search. We tell Claude to figure out
when it should search based off of the
problem at hand, and that's really what
allows Claude to be agentic in response
to your query.
In a similar way, when we work with all
of our teammates, uh we don't ask them
to turn their inner monologue on and off
in response to a question. Uh we ask
them how hard to try, and then our
teammates decide how hard they are going
to think on that problem and what
actions that they will take in response.
So, I wanted to dig in a little bit more
on effort and give you some practical
guidance of how you should think about
setting these effort levels depending on
your use case at hand.
First, whenever possible, it's always
best to run evals and then chart
performance where you compare on your
x-axis here something like total tokens,
time, or cost, and on your y-axis
performance.
This allows you to create an effort
curve like this and get a better idea of
what trade-offs you might make by
selecting a given effort level.
Higher effort is going to improve
performance on most intelligence-bound
tasks,
but it also may show diminishing
returns. For your use case, you might
look at a graph like this and say, "I
will spend whatever tokens I need in
order to get the best intelligence." Or
you might say, "The relative improvement
in performance between extra high and
max is not worth the difference in
tokens that I will spend, and so extra
high is a better setting for my use
case."
Low effort can instead help accomplish a
task much quicker and save you a lot of
tokens, but it's also going to limit how
thorough Claude is in accomplishing the
task at hand.
As a quick tip, my advice is that when
using low effort, Claude is really
trying to save tokens as much as
possible, and so sometimes you may catch
it taking unexpected shortcuts that you
didn't expect it to. And so, in addition
to looking at evals, we always think
it's a best practice to spend time
reading your transcripts and better
understand exactly how Claude is
responding at a given effort level for
the thing that you're asking it to do.
On the flip side, uh low efforts have
also surprised us in some really
interesting ways. So, one of my favorite
evaluations that we've created is called
Claude Plays Pokémon, where uh Claude
gets the opportunity to work its way
through the original Pokémon Red game
that many of us uh grew up knowing and
loving.
When we ran Claude Plays Pokémon on low
effort, something really interesting
happened, and it actually ended up
treating the game much like a speedrun.
So, it would skip trainer battles in
order to save itself some time. It would
use healing items that it stocked up on
instead of wasting time going back to
Pokémon Healing Centers, and it would
spam an item called a repel that would
limit disruptive encounters with other
Pokémon, making it through caves much
more quickly.
And what I find most interesting about
this is often times we might correlate
low effort with lower intelligence, but
for any of us that grew up playing this
game, what you really realize is this is
a super clever strategy. It takes a
certain amount of intelligence to figure
out how you might minimize token spend
in order to get through these levels as
fast as possible. And so it was
interesting to see how Claude's
interpretation of low effort translated
to beat the game as fast as possible
employing actually very clever
strategies along the way.
So Evals are always ideal. I'll always
champion them anytime that you have
them. But I wanted to just give you some
quick rules of thumb on how you might
select an effort setting in the absence
of Evals or even if you have them. This
is just a good way to think about
things.
First, max effort, no surprise, can
deliver gains on your hardest tasks. But
as I mentioned before, it can sometimes
show signs of diminishing returns.
I recommend testing it for your most
intelligence demanding use cases, but
don't always assume that this is going
to be either the ceiling on performance
or really the best bang for your buck.
It could be the case that a level down
is going to give you roughly equivalent
performance at a real fraction of the
cost.
Extra high effort is a new setting that
we introduced with Claude Opus 4.7, and
we found this to be the best setting for
most coding and agentic use cases.
This is currently our default in Claude
Code and Claude.ai for Opus 4.7. And
like I said, it really does a good job
maximizing intelligence without kind of
going overboard.
High effort is a great setting if you're
trying to balance token usage and
intelligence, and this is probably the
value that I would recommend for any
intelligence sensitive use case. High is
a good place to start and test up from
there.
Medium is good for cost-sensitive use
cases where you're willing to trade a
little bit of intelligence
in order to get a much faster result.
And then low is good for reserving for
kind of your short-scope tasks and
latency-sensitive workloads.
However, as I mentioned before, it's
always good to just put it in practice
and see what actually happens because it
might surprise you.
I mentioned at the start of the talk
that test time compute is a second way
of scaling intelligence as compared to
training time compute.
So, it kind of begs the question if both
give similar tradeoffs with respect to
performance, speed, and cost,
when should I use a smaller model or
when should I use a lower effort level
on a bigger model?
As some quick guidelines, I would say
first, low effort on a bigger model is
good for an intelligence-demanding use
case where you're trying to optimize for
speed.
Going back to our example here of our
traffic light simulation, you can see
that Opus 4.7 on low effort spent about
the same amount of output tokens and
only took a little bit longer than Haiku
4.5 on max effort, but I would say it
achieved a much better result. So, often
the low effort on the larger more
intelligent model can give you a better
bang for your buck when trading off
speed versus intelligence on
an intelligence-demanding use case.
On the flip side,
smaller models can be really good if
you're trying to optimize cost and your
use case is not too
intelligence-demanding.
So, if you have some simpler LLM tasks,
especially if you need to do them in
bulk, something like classification,
information extraction, basic
summarization, that's where small models
are going to come in handy and they're
going to be able to save you a lot of
cost when you don't need peak
intelligence.
Another case where small models are
really useful is if your application
demands a really low time to first
token. So, if you want Claude to give
responses as fast as possible in
response to a user query, the nature of
the smaller models means that they will
produce tokens often times much sooner
sooner and give you a better time to
first token. The way that I think about
this is use small models for a fast time
to first token, use bigger models at
lower effort for a fast time to last
token.
Wherever possible, as I said before, I
recommend evaluating both. It's good to
build these eval curves across a few
different model types and across various
effort levels and then look at what the
tradeoffs give you for your use case
that you're trying to optimize.
All right. So, before closing the talk,
I wanted to just summarize three key
actionable items that I hope that you
take away from this.
One, enable thinking whenever possible
in order to give Claude that space to
reason. Thinking, like I said, is really
core to how Claude works and gives it
that space and that inner monologue to
be able to work through your problem as
efficiently as possible.
If you want to modulate the amount of
time that Claude is spending thinking on
your problem, I recommend using effort
levels or budgets as your way of
influencing Claude's behavior.
Second, I might sound like a broken
record here, but if you have evals, use
them.
Use that to find your ideal balance.
Chart your curves, test on different
effort settings, test with different
budgets, test with different models,
look at what the performance gives you
and decide what makes sense for your use
case without forgetting to always dig in
and read those transcripts.
And lastly, if you're not going to do
any of that and you just need to make a
choice and you're working on anything
coding and software engineering related,
my advice would be go with extra high.
It's a pretty good setting and gives a
great bang for your buck while
delivering great intelligence.
Our North Star for Claude overall is
that it allocates compute incredibly
well when asked for it, and that you can
set a quality bar and a budget, and
Claude will just go ahead and figure out
the rest and give you the best
performance for your use case.
Adaptive thinking and effort levels and
budgets are all a step in this
direction, but they're really just the
beginning and there's a lot more to
come. I'm excited to share more with you
in the future, so stay tuned and thanks
so much for taking the time.
If you want to chat more about this,
I'll be around the conference in the
audience. I'm always happy to nerd out
about these things, so thank you.